feat: ai-proxy plugin (#11499)
apache/apisix: docs/en/latest/plugins/ai-proxy.md

---
title: ai-proxy
keywords:
  - Apache APISIX
  - API Gateway
  - Plugin
  - ai-proxy
description: This document contains information about the Apache APISIX ai-proxy Plugin.
---

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

## Description

> The `ai-proxy` plugin simplifies access to AI providers and models by defining a standard request format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ai-proxy` plugin simplifies access to LLM providers and models by defining a standard request format
```

> that allows configuring key fields in plugin configuration to embed into the request.

Reviewer: do you mean

```suggestion
that allows key fields in plugin configuration to be embedded into the request.
```

> Proxying requests to OpenAI is supported for now, other AI models will be supported soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Proxying requests to OpenAI is supported now. Other LLM services will be supported soon.
```

svc providers != models
LLM models != AI models  (just a subset)

| keepalive_timeout         | No           | Integer  | Keepalive timeout in milliseconds for requests to LLM. Minimum: 1000. Default: 60000 |
| keepalive_pool            | No           | Integer  | Keepalive pool size for requests to LLM. Minimum: 1. Default: 30                     |
| ssl_verify                | No           | Boolean  | SSL verification for requests to LLM. Default: true                                  |

## Example usage

Create a route with the `ai-proxy` plugin like so:

```shell
curl "http://127.0.0.1:9180/apisix/admin/routes/1" -X PUT \
  -H "X-API-KEY: ${ADMIN_API_KEY}" \
  -d '{
    "uri": "/anything",
    "plugins": {
      "ai-proxy": {
        "auth": {
          "header": {
            "Authorization": "Bearer <some-token>"
          }
        },
        "model": {
          "provider": "openai",
          "name": "gpt-4",
          "options": {
            "max_tokens": 512,
            "temperature": 1.0
          }
        }
      }
    },
    "upstream": {
      "type": "roundrobin",
      "nodes": {
        "somerandom.com:443": 1
      },
      "scheme": "https",
      "pass_host": "node"
    }
  }'
```

> Since `passthrough` is not enabled upstream node can be any arbitrary value because it won't be contacted.

Reviewer: 1. design question: why do we need the parameter `passthrough`? is it meant to be a toggle?
2. is this sentence needed here?

Author: > design question: why do we need the parameter passthrough? is it meant to be a toggle?

yes, kinda. when it's enabled, the response from LLM will be set as the request body to the upstream.

> is this sentence needed here?

I think it's important to let users know, instead to let them be puzzled about it and then figure out later.
